docs/accessibility/chromevox_on_desktop_linux.md, before:

# ChromeVox on Desktop Linux

## Starting ChromeVox

On Chrome OS, you can enable spoken feedback (ChromeVox) by pressing Ctrl+Alt+Z.

If you have a Chromebook, this gives you speech support built-in. If you're
building Chrome from source and running it on desktop Linux, speech and braille
won't be included by default. Here's how to enable it.

## Compiling the Chrome OS version of Chrome

First follow the public instructions for
[Chrome checkout and build](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/get-the-code).

Create a GN configuration with "chromeos" as the target OS, for example:

```
gn args out/cros
```

...in editor, add this line:

```
target_os = "chromeos"
is_component_build = true
is_debug = false
```

Note: Only ```target_os = "chromeos"``` is required, the others are recommended
for a good experience but you can configure Chrome however you like otherwise.
Note that Native Client is required, so do not put `enable_nacl = false` in
your file anywhere!

Now build Chrome as usual, e.g.:

```
ninja -C out/cros chrome
```

And run it as usual to see a mostly-complete Chrome OS desktop inside
of a window:

```
out/cros/chrome
```

By default you'll be logged in as the default user. If you want to
simulate the login manager too, run it like this:

```
out/cros/chrome --login-manager
```

You can run any of the above under it’s own X session (avoiding any window
manager key combo conflicts) by doing something like

```
startx out/cros/chrome
```

## Speech

If you want speech, you just need to copy the speech synthesis data files to
/usr/share like it would be on a Chrome OS device:

```
sudo git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/assets /usr/share/chromeos-assets
```

Change the permissions:

```
sudo find /usr/share/chromeos-assets -type f -exec chmod 644 {} \;
sudo find /usr/share/chromeos-assets -type d -exec chmod 755 {} \;
```

Next, unzip the NaCl executables. You only need to do the one for your host
architecture:

```
PATTS_DIR=/usr/share/chromeos-assets/speech_synthesis/patts
sudo unzip $PATTS_DIR/tts_service_x86-64.nexe.zip -d $PATTS_DIR 
```

**Be sure to check permissions of /usr/share/chromeos-assets, some users report
they need to chmod or chown too, it really depends on your system.**

After you do that, just run "chrome" as above (e.g. out/cros/chrome) and press
Ctrl+Alt+Z, and you should hear it speak! If not, check the logs.

## Braille

ChromeVox uses extension APIs to deliver braille to Brltty through libbrlapi
and uses Liblouis to perform translation and backtranslation.

Once built, Chrome and ChromeVox will use your machine’s running Brltty
daemon to display braille if ChromeVox is running. Simply ensure you have a
display connected before running Chrome and that Brltty is running.

Testing against the latest releases of Brltty (e.g. 5.4 at time of writing) is
encouraged.

For more general information, see [ChromeVox](chromevox.md)

# Using ChromeVox

ChromeVox keyboard shortcuts use Search. On Linux that's usually your Windows
key. If some shortcuts don't work, you may need to remove Gnome keyboard
shortcut bindings, or use "startx", as suggested above, or remap it.

* Search+Space: Click
* Search+Left/Right: navigate linearly
* Search+Period: Open ChromeVox menus
* Search+H: jump to next heading on page

Commit message:

Adds instruction to help run ChromeVox on desktop Linux.
After unzipping the speech_synthesis/patts directory a user may need
to chmod the new files for ChromeVox. This is a documentation-only 
change.

NOTRY=true

R=dmazzoni@chromium.org

Change-Id: I968750fac8aaea463a42557fa93ddf8670cb2e11

docs/accessibility/chromevox_on_desktop_linux.md, after:

# ChromeVox on Desktop Linux

## Starting ChromeVox

On Chrome OS, you can enable spoken feedback (ChromeVox) by pressing Ctrl+Alt+Z.

If you have a Chromebook, this gives you speech support built-in. If you're
building Chrome from source and running it on desktop Linux, speech and braille
won't be included by default. Here's how to enable it.

## Compiling the Chrome OS version of Chrome

First follow the public instructions for
[Chrome checkout and build](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/get-the-code).

Create a GN configuration with "chromeos" as the target OS, for example:

```
gn args out/cros
```

...in editor, add this line:

```
target_os = "chromeos"
is_component_build = true
is_debug = false
```

Note: Only ```target_os = "chromeos"``` is required, the others are recommended
for a good experience but you can configure Chrome however you like otherwise.
Note that Native Client is required, so do not put `enable_nacl = false` in
your file anywhere!

Now build Chrome as usual, e.g.:

```
ninja -C out/cros chrome
```

And run it as usual to see a mostly-complete Chrome OS desktop inside
of a window:

```
out/cros/chrome
```

By default you'll be logged in as the default user. If you want to
simulate the login manager too, run it like this:

```
out/cros/chrome --login-manager
```

You can run any of the above under it’s own X session (avoiding any window
manager key combo conflicts) by doing something like

```
startx out/cros/chrome
```

## Speech

If you want speech, you just need to copy the speech synthesis data files to
/usr/share like it would be on a Chrome OS device:

```
sudo git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/assets /usr/share/chromeos-assets
```

Change the permissions:

```
sudo find /usr/share/chromeos-assets -type f -exec chmod 644 {} \;
sudo find /usr/share/chromeos-assets -type d -exec chmod 755 {} \;
```

Next, unzip the NaCl executables. You only need to do the one for your host
architecture:

```
PATTS_DIR=/usr/share/chromeos-assets/speech_synthesis/patts
sudo unzip $PATTS_DIR/tts_service_x86-64.nexe.zip -d $PATTS_DIR 
```

You may need to update permissions for the unzipped files within within
speech_synthesis/patts:

```
sudo find $PATTS_DIR -type f -exec chmod 755 {} \;
```

**Be sure to check permissions of /usr/share/chromeos-assets, some users report
they need to chmod or chown too, it really depends on your system.**

After you do that, just run "chrome" as above (e.g. out/cros/chrome) and press
Ctrl+Alt+Z, and you should hear it speak! If not, check the logs.

## Braille

ChromeVox uses extension APIs to deliver braille to Brltty through libbrlapi
and uses Liblouis to perform translation and backtranslation.

Once built, Chrome and ChromeVox will use your machine’s running Brltty
daemon to display braille if ChromeVox is running. Simply ensure you have a
display connected before running Chrome and that Brltty is running.

Testing against the latest releases of Brltty (e.g. 5.4 at time of writing) is
encouraged.

For more general information, see [ChromeVox](chromevox.md)

# Using ChromeVox

ChromeVox keyboard shortcuts use Search. On Linux that's usually your Windows
key. If some shortcuts don't work, you may need to remove Gnome keyboard
shortcut bindings, or use "startx", as suggested above, or remap it.

* Search+Space: Click
* Search+Left/Right: navigate linearly
* Search+Period: Open ChromeVox menus
* Search+H: jump to next heading on page
