docs/android_test_instructions.md, before:

# Android Test Instructions

Device Setup Tests are runnable on physical devices or emulators. See the
instructions below for setting up either a physical device or an emulator.

[TOC]

## Physical Device Setup **ADB Debugging**

In order to allow the ADB to connect to the device, you must enable USB
debugging:

*   Before Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean):
    *   Go to "System Settings"
    *   Go to "Developer options"
    *   Check "USB debugging".
    *   Un-check "Verify apps over USB".
*   On Jelly Bean, developer options are hidden by default. To unhide them:
    *   Go to "About phone"
    *   Tap 10 times on "Build number"
    *   The "Developer options" menu will now be available.
    *   Check "USB debugging".
    *   Un-check "Verify apps over USB".

### Screen

You MUST ensure that the screen stays on while testing: `adb shell svc power
stayon usb` Or do this manually on the device: Settings -> Developer options
-> Stay Awake.

If this option is greyed out, stay awake is probably disabled by policy. In that
case, get another device or log in with a normal, unmanaged account (because the
tests will break in exciting ways if stay awake is off).

### Enable Asserts!

    adb shell setprop debug.assert 1

### Disable Verify Apps

You may see a dialog like
[this one](http://www.samsungmobileusa.com/simulators/ATT_GalaxyMega/mobile/screens/06-02_12.jpg),
which states, _Google may regularly check installed apps for potentially harmful
behavior._ This can interfere with the test runner. To disable this dialog, run:
`adb shell settings put global package_verifier_enable 0`

## Emulator Setup

### Option 1:

Use an emulator (i.e. Android Virtual Device, AVD): Enabling Intel's
Virtualizaton support provides the fastest, most reliable emulator configuration
available (i.e. x86 emulator with GPU acceleration and KVM support).

1.  Enable Intel Virtualization support in the BIOS.

2.  Set up your environment:

    ```shell
    . build/android/envsetup.sh
    ```

3.  Install emulator deps:

    ```shell
    build/android/install_emulator_deps.py --api-level=19
    ```

    This script will download Android SDK and place it a directory called
    android\_tools in the same parent directory as your chromium checkout. It
    will also download the system-images for the emulators (i.e. arm and x86).
    Note that this is a different SDK download than the Android SDK in the
    chromium source checkout (i.e. src/third\_party/android\_emulator\_sdk).

4.  Run the avd.py script. To start up _num_ emulators use -n. For non-x86 use
    --abi.

    ```shell
    build/android/avd.py --api-level=19
    ```

    This script will attempt to use GPU emulation, so you must be running the
    emulators in an environment with hardware rendering available. See
    `avd.py --help` for more details.

### Option 2:

Alternatively, you can create an run your own emulator using the tools provided
by the Android SDK. When doing so, be sure to enable GPU emulation in hardware
settings, since Chromium requires it to render.

## Building Tests

It may not be immediately obvious where your test code gets compiled to, so here
are some general rules:

*  If your test code lives under /content, it will probably be built as part of
   the content_shell_test_apk
*  If your test code lives under /chrome (or higher), it will probably be built
   as part of the chrome_public_test_apk
*  (Please fill in more details here if you know them).

   NB: We used to call the chrome_public_test_apk the
   chromium_shell_test_apk. There may still be references to this kicking
   around, but wherever you see chromium_shell_test you should replace with
   chrome_public_test.

Once you know what to build, just do it like you normally would build anything
else, e.g.: `ninja -C out/Release chrome_public_test_apk`

## Running Tests

All functional tests are run using `build/android/test_runner.py`.
Tests are sharded across all attached devices. In order to run tests, call:
`build/android/test_runner.py <test_type> [options]`
For a list of valid test types, see `test_runner.py --help`. For
help on a specific test type, run `test_runner.py <test_type> --help`.

The commands used by the buildbots are printed in the logs. Look at
http://build.chromium.org/ to duplicate the same test command as a particular
builder.

If you build in an output directory other than "out", you may have to tell
test\_runner.py where you place it. Say you build your android code in
out\_android, then do `export CHROMIUM_OUT_DIR=out_android` before running the
command below. You have to do this even if your "out" directory is a symlink
pointing to "out_android".

## INSTALL\_FAILED\_CONTAINER\_ERROR or INSTALL\_FAILED\_INSUFFICIENT\_STORAGE

If you see this error when test\_runner.py is attempting to deploy the test
binaries to the AVD emulator, you may need to resize your userdata partition
with the following commands:

```shell
# Resize userdata partition to be 1G
resize2fs android_emulator_sdk/sdk/system-images/android-19/x86/userdata.img 1G

# Set filesystem parameter to continue on errors; Android doesn't like some
# things e2fsprogs does.
tune2fs -e continue android_emulator_sdk/sdk/system-images/android-19/x86/userdata.img
```

## Symbolizing Crashes

Crash stacks are logged and can be viewed using adb logcat. To symbolize the
traces, pipe the output through
`third_party/android_platform/development/scripts/stack`. If you build in an
output directory other than "out", pass
`--chrome-symbols-dir=out_directory/{Debug,Release}/lib` to the script as well.

## Gtests

```shell
# Build a test suite
ninja -C out/Release content_unittests_apk

# Run a test suite
build/android/test_runner.py gtest -s content_unittests --release -vvv

# Run a subset of tests
build/android/test_runner.py gtest -s content_unittests --release -vvv \
--gtest-filter ByteStreamTest.*
```

## Instrumentation Tests

In order to run instrumentation tests, you must leave your device screen ON and
UNLOCKED. Otherwise, the test will timeout trying to launch an intent.
Optionally you can disable screen lock under Settings -> Security -> Screen Lock
-> None.

Next, you need to build the app, build your tests, install the application APK,
and then run your tests (which will install the test APK automatically).

Examples:

ContentShell tests:

```shell
# Build the code under test
ninja -C out/Release content_shell_apk

# Build the tests themselves
ninja -C out/Release content_shell_test_apk

# Install the code under test
build/android/adb_install_apk.py out/Release/apks/ContentShell.apk

# Run the test (will automagically install the test APK)
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest \
--isolate-file-path content/content_shell_test_apk.isolate --release -vv
```

ChromePublic tests:

```shell
# Build the code under test
ninja -C out/Release chrome_public_apk

# Build the tests themselves
ninja -C out/Release chrome_public_test_apk

# Install the code under test
build/android/adb_install_apk.py out/Release/apks/ChromePublic.apk

# Run the test (will automagically install the test APK)
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ChromePublicTest \
--isolate-file-path chrome/chrome_public_test_apk.isolate --release -vv
```

AndroidWebView tests:

```shell
ninja -C out/Release android_webview_apk
ninja -C out/Release android_webview_test_apk
build/android/adb_install_apk.py out/Release/apks/AndroidWebView.apk \
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=AndroidWebViewTest \
--test_data webview:android_webview/test/data/device_files --release -vvv
```

Use adb\_install\_apk.py to install the app under test, then run the test
command. In order to run a subset of tests, use -f to filter based on test
class/method or -A/-E to filter using annotations.

Filtering examples:

```shell
# Run a test suite
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest

# Run a specific test class
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest -f \
AddressDetectionTest

# Run a specific test method
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest -f \
AddressDetectionTest#testAddressLimits

# Run a subset of tests by size (Smoke, SmallTest, MediumTest, LargeTest,
# EnormousTest)
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest -A \
Smoke

# Run a subset of tests by annotation, such as filtering by Feature
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest -A \
Feature=Navigation
```

You might want to add stars `*` to each as a regular expression, e.g.
`*`AddressDetectionTest`*`

## Running Blink Layout Tests

See
https://sites.google.com/a/chromium.org/dev/developers/testing/webkit-layout-tests

## Running GPU tests

(e.g. the "Android Debug (Nexus 7)" bot on the chromium.gpu waterfall)

See http://www.chromium.org/developers/testing/gpu-testing for details. Use
--browser=android-content-shell. Examine the stdio from the test invocation on
the bots to see arguments to pass to src/content/test/gpu/run\_gpu\_test.py.

Commit message:

Android: add documentation about junit tests.
There is no clear documentation explaining how to build and run junit
tests. Hopefully this will help.

BUG=None

Review URL: https://codereview.chromium.org/1421613003

docs/android_test_instructions.md, after:

# Android Test Instructions

Device Setup Tests are runnable on physical devices or emulators. See the
instructions below for setting up either a physical device or an emulator.

[TOC]

## Physical Device Setup **ADB Debugging**

In order to allow the ADB to connect to the device, you must enable USB
debugging:

*   Before Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean):
    *   Go to "System Settings"
    *   Go to "Developer options"
    *   Check "USB debugging".
    *   Un-check "Verify apps over USB".
*   On Jelly Bean, developer options are hidden by default. To unhide them:
    *   Go to "About phone"
    *   Tap 10 times on "Build number"
    *   The "Developer options" menu will now be available.
    *   Check "USB debugging".
    *   Un-check "Verify apps over USB".

### Screen

You MUST ensure that the screen stays on while testing: `adb shell svc power
stayon usb` Or do this manually on the device: Settings -> Developer options
-> Stay Awake.

If this option is greyed out, stay awake is probably disabled by policy. In that
case, get another device or log in with a normal, unmanaged account (because the
tests will break in exciting ways if stay awake is off).

### Enable Asserts!

    adb shell setprop debug.assert 1

### Disable Verify Apps

You may see a dialog like
[this one](http://www.samsungmobileusa.com/simulators/ATT_GalaxyMega/mobile/screens/06-02_12.jpg),
which states, _Google may regularly check installed apps for potentially harmful
behavior._ This can interfere with the test runner. To disable this dialog, run:
`adb shell settings put global package_verifier_enable 0`

## Emulator Setup

### Option 1:

Use an emulator (i.e. Android Virtual Device, AVD): Enabling Intel's
Virtualizaton support provides the fastest, most reliable emulator configuration
available (i.e. x86 emulator with GPU acceleration and KVM support).

1.  Enable Intel Virtualization support in the BIOS.

2.  Set up your environment:

    ```shell
    . build/android/envsetup.sh
    ```

3.  Install emulator deps:

    ```shell
    build/android/install_emulator_deps.py --api-level=19
    ```

    This script will download Android SDK and place it a directory called
    android\_tools in the same parent directory as your chromium checkout. It
    will also download the system-images for the emulators (i.e. arm and x86).
    Note that this is a different SDK download than the Android SDK in the
    chromium source checkout (i.e. src/third\_party/android\_emulator\_sdk).

4.  Run the avd.py script. To start up _num_ emulators use -n. For non-x86 use
    --abi.

    ```shell
    build/android/avd.py --api-level=19
    ```

    This script will attempt to use GPU emulation, so you must be running the
    emulators in an environment with hardware rendering available. See
    `avd.py --help` for more details.

### Option 2:

Alternatively, you can create an run your own emulator using the tools provided
by the Android SDK. When doing so, be sure to enable GPU emulation in hardware
settings, since Chromium requires it to render.

## Building Tests

It may not be immediately obvious where your test code gets compiled to, so here
are some general rules:

*  If your test code lives under /content, it will probably be built as part of
   the content_shell_test_apk
*  If your test code lives under /chrome (or higher), it will probably be built
   as part of the chrome_public_test_apk
*  (Please fill in more details here if you know them).

   NB: We used to call the chrome_public_test_apk the
   chromium_shell_test_apk. There may still be references to this kicking
   around, but wherever you see chromium_shell_test you should replace with
   chrome_public_test.

Once you know what to build, just do it like you normally would build anything
else, e.g.: `ninja -C out/Release chrome_public_test_apk`

## Running Tests

All functional tests are run using `build/android/test_runner.py`.
Tests are sharded across all attached devices. In order to run tests, call:
`build/android/test_runner.py <test_type> [options]`
For a list of valid test types, see `test_runner.py --help`. For
help on a specific test type, run `test_runner.py <test_type> --help`.

The commands used by the buildbots are printed in the logs. Look at
http://build.chromium.org/ to duplicate the same test command as a particular
builder.

If you build in an output directory other than "out", you may have to tell
test\_runner.py where you place it. Say you build your android code in
out\_android, then do `export CHROMIUM_OUT_DIR=out_android` before running the
command below. You have to do this even if your "out" directory is a symlink
pointing to "out_android". You can also use `--output-directory` to point to the
path of your output directory, for example,
`--output-directory=out_android/Debug`.

## INSTALL\_FAILED\_CONTAINER\_ERROR or INSTALL\_FAILED\_INSUFFICIENT\_STORAGE

If you see this error when test\_runner.py is attempting to deploy the test
binaries to the AVD emulator, you may need to resize your userdata partition
with the following commands:

```shell
# Resize userdata partition to be 1G
resize2fs android_emulator_sdk/sdk/system-images/android-19/x86/userdata.img 1G

# Set filesystem parameter to continue on errors; Android doesn't like some
# things e2fsprogs does.
tune2fs -e continue android_emulator_sdk/sdk/system-images/android-19/x86/userdata.img
```

## Symbolizing Crashes

Crash stacks are logged and can be viewed using adb logcat. To symbolize the
traces, pipe the output through
`third_party/android_platform/development/scripts/stack`. If you build in an
output directory other than "out", pass
`--chrome-symbols-dir=out_directory/{Debug,Release}/lib` to the script as well.

## JUnit tests

JUnit tests are Java unittests running on the host instead of the target device.
They are faster to run and therefore are recommended over instrumentation tests
when possible.

The JUnits tests are usually following the pattern of *target*\_junit\_tests,
for example, `content_junit_tests` and `chrome_junit_tests`.

When adding a new JUnit test, the associated `BUILD.gn` file must be updated.
For example, adding a test to `chrome_junit_tests` requires to update
`chrome/android/BUILD.gn`. If you are a GYP user, you will not need to do that
step in order to run the test locally but it is still required for GN users to
run the test.

```shell
# Build the test suite.
ninja -C out/Release chrome_junit_tests

# Run the test suite.
build/android/test_runner.py junit -s chrome_junit_tests --release -vvv

# Run a subset of tests. You might need to pass the package name for some tests.
build/android/test_runner.py junit -s chrome_junit_tests --release -vvv
-f "org.chromium.chrome.browser.media.*"
```

## Gtests

```shell
# Build a test suite
ninja -C out/Release content_unittests_apk

# Run a test suite
build/android/test_runner.py gtest -s content_unittests --release -vvv

# Run a subset of tests
build/android/test_runner.py gtest -s content_unittests --release -vvv \
--gtest-filter ByteStreamTest.*
```

## Instrumentation Tests

In order to run instrumentation tests, you must leave your device screen ON and
UNLOCKED. Otherwise, the test will timeout trying to launch an intent.
Optionally you can disable screen lock under Settings -> Security -> Screen Lock
-> None.

Next, you need to build the app, build your tests, install the application APK,
and then run your tests (which will install the test APK automatically).

Examples:

ContentShell tests:

```shell
# Build the code under test
ninja -C out/Release content_shell_apk

# Build the tests themselves
ninja -C out/Release content_shell_test_apk

# Install the code under test
build/android/adb_install_apk.py out/Release/apks/ContentShell.apk

# Run the test (will automagically install the test APK)
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest \
--isolate-file-path content/content_shell_test_apk.isolate --release -vv
```

ChromePublic tests:

```shell
# Build the code under test
ninja -C out/Release chrome_public_apk

# Build the tests themselves
ninja -C out/Release chrome_public_test_apk

# Install the code under test
build/android/adb_install_apk.py out/Release/apks/ChromePublic.apk

# Run the test (will automagically install the test APK)
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ChromePublicTest \
--isolate-file-path chrome/chrome_public_test_apk.isolate --release -vv
```

AndroidWebView tests:

```shell
ninja -C out/Release android_webview_apk
ninja -C out/Release android_webview_test_apk
build/android/adb_install_apk.py out/Release/apks/AndroidWebView.apk \
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=AndroidWebViewTest \
--test_data webview:android_webview/test/data/device_files --release -vvv
```

Use adb\_install\_apk.py to install the app under test, then run the test
command. In order to run a subset of tests, use -f to filter based on test
class/method or -A/-E to filter using annotations.

Filtering examples:

```shell
# Run a test suite
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest

# Run a specific test class
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest -f \
AddressDetectionTest

# Run a specific test method
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest -f \
AddressDetectionTest#testAddressLimits

# Run a subset of tests by size (Smoke, SmallTest, MediumTest, LargeTest,
# EnormousTest)
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest -A \
Smoke

# Run a subset of tests by annotation, such as filtering by Feature
build/android/test_runner.py instrumentation --test-apk=ContentShellTest -A \
Feature=Navigation
```

You might want to add stars `*` to each as a regular expression, e.g.
`*`AddressDetectionTest`*`

## Running Blink Layout Tests

See
https://sites.google.com/a/chromium.org/dev/developers/testing/webkit-layout-tests

## Running GPU tests

(e.g. the "Android Debug (Nexus 7)" bot on the chromium.gpu waterfall)

See http://www.chromium.org/developers/testing/gpu-testing for details. Use
--browser=android-content-shell. Examine the stdio from the test invocation on
the bots to see arguments to pass to src/content/test/gpu/run\_gpu\_test.py.
