docs/jumbo.md, before:

# Jumbo / Unity builds

To improve compilation times it is possible to use "unity builds",
called Jumbo builds, in Chromium. The idea is to merge many
translation units ("source files") and compile them together. Since a
large portion of Chromium's code is in shared header files that
dramatically reduces the total amount of work needed.

## Build instructions

If jumbo isn't already enabled, you enable it in `gn` by setting
`use_jumbo_build = true` then compile as normal.

## Implementation

Jumbo is currently implemented as a combined `gn` template and a
python script. Eventually it may become a native `gn` feature. By
using the template `jumbo_target`, each target will split into one
action to "merge" the files and one action to compile the merged files
and any files left outside the merge.

Template file: `//build/config/jumbo.gni`
Merge script: `//build/config/merge_for_jumbo.py`

### Merge The "merge" is currently done by creating wrapper files that
`#include` the source files.

## Jumbo Pros and Cons

### Pros

* Everything compiles significantly faster. When fully enabled
* everywhere this can save hours for a full build (binaries and tests)
* on a moderate computer.  Linking is faster because there is less
* redundant data (debug information, inline functions) to merge.
* Certain code bugs can be statically detected by the compiler when it
* sees more/all the relevant source code.

### Cons

* By merging many files, symbols that have internal linkage in
  different `cc` files can collide and cause compilation errors.
* The smallest possible compilation unit grows which can add
  10-20 seconds to some single file recompilations (though link
  times often shrink).

### Mixed blessing
* Slightly different compiler warnings will be active.

## Tuning

By default at most `200` files are merged at a time. The more files
are merged, the less total CPU time is needed, but parallelism is
reduced. This can be changed by setting `jumbo_file_merge_limit` to
something else than `200`.

## Naming

The term jumbo is used to avoid the confusion resulting from talking
about unity builds since unity is also the name of a graphical
environment, a 3D engine, a webaudio filter and part of the QUIC
congestion control code. Jumbo has been used as name for a unity build
system in another browser engine.

## Want to make your favourite piece of code jumbo?

1. Add `import("//build/config/jumbo.gni")` to `BUILD.gn`.
2. Change your target, for instance `static_library`, to `jumbo_target`
3. Add a local variable `target_type` with the name of the
   final target/template. For instance `target_type = "static_library"`
4. Recompile and test.

### Example
Change from:

    static_library("foothing") {
      sources = [
        "foothing.cc"
        "fooutil.cc"
        "fooutil.h"
      ]
    }
to:

    import("//build/config/jumbo.gni")  # ADDED LINE
    jumbo_target("foothing") {          # CHANGED LINE
      target_type = "static_library"    # ADDED LINE
      sources = [
        "foothing.cc"
        "fooutil.cc"
        "fooutil.h"
      ]
    }


If you see some compilation errors about colliding symbols, resolve
those by renaming symbols or removing duplicate code.  If it's
impractical to change the code, add a `jumbo_excluded_sources`
variable to your target in `BUILD.gn`:

`jumbo_excluded_sources = [ "problematic_file.cc" ]`

## More information and pictures
There are more information and pictures in a
[Google Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19jGsZxh7DX8jkAKbL1nYBa5rcByUL2EeidnYsoXfsYQ)

## Mailing List
Public discussions happen on the generic blink-dev and chromium-dev
mailing lists.

https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/group/chromium-dev/topics

## Bugs / feature requests
Related bugs use the label `jumbo` in the bug database.
See [the open bugs](http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/list?q=label:jumbo).

Commit message:

Make multiple jumbo_* templates instead of just jumbo_target
Initially there was just one template, jumbo_target, but that
caused problems with default configurations and also made every
patch one line more verbose than necessary. Better to have multiple
templates and make the usage just a little bit simple.

Bug: 713137
Change-Id: I7e2b1f0c5216b4465bae331763d6aa5a08e1c996

docs/jumbo.md, after:

# Jumbo / Unity builds

To improve compilation times it is possible to use "unity builds",
called Jumbo builds, in Chromium. The idea is to merge many
translation units ("source files") and compile them together. Since a
large portion of Chromium's code is in shared header files that
dramatically reduces the total amount of work needed.

## Build instructions

If jumbo isn't already enabled, you enable it in `gn` by setting
`use_jumbo_build = true` then compile as normal.

## Implementation

Jumbo is currently implemented as a combined `gn` template and a
python script. Eventually it may become a native `gn` feature. By
(indirectly) using the template `internal_jumbo_target`, each target
will split into one action to "merge" the files and one action to
compile the merged files and any files left outside the merge.

Template file: `//build/config/jumbo.gni`
Merge script: `//build/config/merge_for_jumbo.py`

### Merge The "merge" is currently done by creating wrapper files that
`#include` the source files.

## Jumbo Pros and Cons

### Pros

* Everything compiles significantly faster. When fully enabled
* everywhere this can save hours for a full build (binaries and tests)
* on a moderate computer.  Linking is faster because there is less
* redundant data (debug information, inline functions) to merge.
* Certain code bugs can be statically detected by the compiler when it
* sees more/all the relevant source code.

### Cons

* By merging many files, symbols that have internal linkage in
  different `cc` files can collide and cause compilation errors.
* The smallest possible compilation unit grows which can add
  10-20 seconds to some single file recompilations (though link
  times often shrink).

### Mixed blessing
* Slightly different compiler warnings will be active.

## Tuning

By default at most `200` files are merged at a time. The more files
are merged, the less total CPU time is needed, but parallelism is
reduced. This can be changed by setting `jumbo_file_merge_limit` to
something else than `200`.

## Naming

The term jumbo is used to avoid the confusion resulting from talking
about unity builds since unity is also the name of a graphical
environment, a 3D engine, a webaudio filter and part of the QUIC
congestion control code. Jumbo has been used as name for a unity build
system in another browser engine.

## Want to make your favourite piece of code jumbo?

1. Add `import("//build/config/jumbo.gni")` to `BUILD.gn`.
2. Change your target, for instance `static_library`, to
   `jumbo_static_library`. So far `source_set`, `component`,
   `static_library` and `split_static_library` are supported.
3. Recompile and test.

### Example
Change from:

    source_set("foothing") {
      sources = [
        "foothing.cc"
        "fooutil.cc"
        "fooutil.h"
      ]
    }
to:

    import("//build/config/jumbo.gni")  # ADDED LINE
    jumbo_source_set("foothing") {      # CHANGED LINE
      sources = [
        "foothing.cc"
        "fooutil.cc"
        "fooutil.h"
      ]
    }


If you see some compilation errors about colliding symbols, resolve
those by renaming symbols or removing duplicate code.  If it's
impractical to change the code, add a `jumbo_excluded_sources`
variable to your target in `BUILD.gn`:

`jumbo_excluded_sources = [ "problematic_file.cc" ]`

## More information and pictures
There are more information and pictures in a
[Google Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19jGsZxh7DX8jkAKbL1nYBa5rcByUL2EeidnYsoXfsYQ)

## Mailing List
Public discussions happen on the generic blink-dev and chromium-dev
mailing lists.

https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/group/chromium-dev/topics

## Bugs / feature requests
Related bugs use the label `jumbo` in the bug database.
See [the open bugs](http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/list?q=label:jumbo).
