docs/linux_open_suse_build_instructions.md, before:

# Linux Open SUSE Build Instructions

This page includes some instruction to build Chromium on openSUSE 11.1 and 11.0.
Before reading this page you need to learn the
[Linux Build Instructions](linux_build_instructions.md).

## How to Install Dependencies:

Use zypper command to install dependencies:

(openSUSE 11.1 and higher)

    sudo zypper in subversion pkg-config python perl \
         bison flex gperf mozilla-nss-devel glib2-devel gtk-devel \
         wdiff lighttpd gcc gcc-c++ gconf2-devel mozilla-nspr \
         mozilla-nspr-devel php5-fastcgi alsa-devel libexpat-devel \
         libjpeg-devel libbz2-devel

For 11.0, use `libnspr4-0d` and `libnspr4-dev` instead of `mozilla-nspr` and
`mozilla-nspr-devel`, and use `php5-cgi` instead of `php5-fastcgi`. And need
`gtk2-devel`.

(openSUSE 11.0)

    sudo zypper in subversion pkg-config python perl \
         bison flex gperf mozilla-nss-devel glib2-devel gtk-devel \
         libnspr4-0d libnspr4-dev wdiff lighttpd gcc gcc-c++ libexpat-devel \
         php5-cgi gconf2-devel alsa-devel gtk2-devel jpeg-devel

The Ubuntu package sun-java6-fonts contains a subset of Java of the fonts used.
Since this package requires Java as a prerequisite anyway, we can do the same
thing by just installing the equivalent OpenSUSE Sun Java package:

    sudo zypper in java-1_6_0-sun

Webkit is currently hard-linked to the Microsoft fonts. To install these using zypper

    sudo zypper in fetchmsttfonts pullin-msttf-fonts

To make the fonts installed above work, as the paths are hardcoded for Ubuntu,
create symlinks to the appropriate locations:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/arial.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Arial.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/arialbd.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Arial_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/arialbi.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Arial_Bold_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/ariali.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Arial_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/comic.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Comic_Sans_MS.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/comicbd.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Comic_Sans_MS_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/cour.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Courier_New.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/courbd.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Courier_New_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/courbi.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Courier_New_Bold_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/couri.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Courier_New_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/impact.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Impact.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/times.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Times_New_Roman.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/timesbd.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Times_New_Roman_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/timesbi.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Times_New_Roman_Bold_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/timesi.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Times_New_Roman_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/verdana.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Verdana.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/verdanab.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Verdana_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/verdanai.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Verdana_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/verdanaz.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Verdana_Bold_Italic.ttf
```

And then for the Java fonts:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/fonts/truetype/ttf-lucida
sudo find /usr/lib*/jvm/java-1.6.*-sun-*/jre/lib -iname '*.ttf' -print \
     -exec ln -s {} /usr/share/fonts/truetype/ttf-lucida \;
```

## Building the software

Please refer to the [Linux Build Instructions](linux_build_instructions.md).

Please update this page if you use different steps.

Commit message:

Update the build instructions to be consistent.
We have lots of inconsistencies between the different platforms in the
public instructions, and between the public instructions and the internal
instructions.

This CL (along with an internal one) should clean everything up.

TBR=teresam@google.com, sdy@chromium.org
NOTRY=true

Review-Url: https://codereview.chromium.org/2526563003

docs/linux_open_suse_build_instructions.md, after:

# Building Chromium on openSUSE

Generally speaking, follow the [Linux Build Instructions](linux_build_instructions.md).
However, do the following instead to install the build dependencies:

## Install the build dependencies:

Use zypper command to install dependencies:

(openSUSE 11.1 and higher)

    sudo zypper in subversion pkg-config python perl \
         bison flex gperf mozilla-nss-devel glib2-devel gtk-devel \
         wdiff lighttpd gcc gcc-c++ gconf2-devel mozilla-nspr \
         mozilla-nspr-devel php5-fastcgi alsa-devel libexpat-devel \
         libjpeg-devel libbz2-devel

For 11.0, use `libnspr4-0d` and `libnspr4-dev` instead of `mozilla-nspr` and
`mozilla-nspr-devel`, and use `php5-cgi` instead of `php5-fastcgi`. And need
`gtk2-devel`.

(openSUSE 11.0)

    sudo zypper in subversion pkg-config python perl \
         bison flex gperf mozilla-nss-devel glib2-devel gtk-devel \
         libnspr4-0d libnspr4-dev wdiff lighttpd gcc gcc-c++ libexpat-devel \
         php5-cgi gconf2-devel alsa-devel gtk2-devel jpeg-devel

The Ubuntu package sun-java6-fonts contains a subset of Java of the fonts used.
Since this package requires Java as a prerequisite anyway, we can do the same
thing by just installing the equivalent OpenSUSE Sun Java package:

    sudo zypper in java-1_6_0-sun

Webkit is currently hard-linked to the Microsoft fonts. To install these using zypper

    sudo zypper in fetchmsttfonts pullin-msttf-fonts

To make the fonts installed above work, as the paths are hardcoded for Ubuntu,
create symlinks to the appropriate locations:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/arial.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Arial.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/arialbd.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Arial_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/arialbi.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Arial_Bold_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/ariali.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Arial_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/comic.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Comic_Sans_MS.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/comicbd.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Comic_Sans_MS_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/cour.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Courier_New.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/courbd.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Courier_New_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/courbi.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Courier_New_Bold_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/couri.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Courier_New_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/impact.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Impact.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/times.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Times_New_Roman.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/timesbd.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Times_New_Roman_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/timesbi.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Times_New_Roman_Bold_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/timesi.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Times_New_Roman_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/verdana.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Verdana.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/verdanab.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Verdana_Bold.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/verdanai.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Verdana_Italic.ttf
sudo ln -s /usr/share/fonts/truetype/verdanaz.ttf /usr/share/fonts/truetype/msttcorefonts/Verdana_Bold_Italic.ttf
```

And then for the Java fonts:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/fonts/truetype/ttf-lucida
sudo find /usr/lib*/jvm/java-1.6.*-sun-*/jre/lib -iname '*.ttf' -print \
     -exec ln -s {} /usr/share/fonts/truetype/ttf-lucida \;
```
