third_party/WebKit/LayoutTests/external/wpt/README.md, before:

The web-platform-tests Project [![IRC chat](https://goo.gl/6nCIks)](http://irc.w3.org/?channels=testing)
==============================

The web-platform-tests Project is a W3C-coordinated attempt to build a
cross-browser testsuite for the Web-platform stack.  However, for mainly
historic reasons, the CSS WG testsuite is in a separate repository,
[csswg-test](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-test). Writing tests in a way
that allows them to be run in all browsers gives browser projects
confidence that they are shipping software that is compatible with other
implementations, and that later implementations will be compatible with
their implementations. This in turn gives Web authors/developers
confidence that they can actually rely on the Web platform to deliver on
the promise of working across browsers and devices without needing extra
layers of abstraction to paper over the gaps left by specification
editors and implementors.

Running the Tests
=================

The tests are designed to be run from your local computer. The test
environment requires [Python 2.7+](http://www.python.org/downloads) (but not Python 3.x).
You will also need a copy of OpenSSL.

On Windows, be sure to add the Python directory (`c:\python2x`, by default) to
your `%Path%` [Environment Variable](http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm),
and read the [Windows Notes](#windows-notes) section below.

To get the tests running, you need to set up the test domains in your
[`hosts` file](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hosts_%28file%29%23Location_in_the_file_system). The
following entries are required:

```
127.0.0.1   web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   www.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   www1.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   www2.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   xn--n8j6ds53lwwkrqhv28a.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   xn--lve-6lad.web-platform.test
0.0.0.0     nonexistent-origin.web-platform.test
```

If you are behind a proxy, you also need to make sure the domains above are
excluded from your proxy lookups.

Because web-platform-tests uses git submodules, you must ensure that
these are up to date. In the root of your checkout, run:

```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

The test environment can then be started using

    ./serve

This will start HTTP servers on two ports and a websockets server on
one port. By default one web server starts on port 8000 and the other
ports are randomly-chosen free ports. Tests must be loaded from the
*first* HTTP server in the output. To change the ports, copy the
`config.default.json` file to `config.json` and edit the new file,
replacing the part that reads:

```
"http": [8000, "auto"]
```

to some port of your choice e.g.

```
"http": [1234, "auto"]
```

If you installed OpenSSL in such a way that running `openssl` at a
command line doesn't work, you also need to adjust the path to the
OpenSSL binary. This can be done by adding a section to `config.json`
like:

```
"ssl": {"openssl": {"binary": "/path/to/openssl"}}
```

<span id="windows-notes">Windows Notes</span>
=============================================

Running wptserve with SSL enabled on Windows typically requires
installing an OpenSSL distribution.
[Shining Light](https://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html)
provide a convenient installer that is known to work, but requires a
little extra setup, i.e.:

Run the installer for Win32_OpenSSL_v1.1.0b (30MB). During installation,
change the default location for where to Copy OpenSSL Dlls from the
System directory to the /bin directory.

After installation, ensure that the path to OpenSSL (typically,
this will be `C:\OpenSSL-Win32\bin`) is in your `%Path%`
[Environment Variable](http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm).
If you forget to do this part, you will most likely see a 'File Not Found'
error when you start wptserve.

Finally, set the path value in the server configuration file to the
default OpenSSL configuration file location. To do this,
copy `config.default.json` in the web-platform-tests root to `config.json`.
Then edit the JSON so that the key `ssl/openssl/base_conf_path` has a
value that is the path to the OpenSSL config file (typically this
will be `C:\\OpenSSL-Win32\\bin\\openssl.cfg`).

Alternatively, you may also use
[Bash on Ubuntu on Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/commandline/wsl/about)
in the Windows 10 Anniversary Update build, then access your windows
partition from there to launch wptserve.

Test Runner
===========

There is a test runner that is designed to provide a
convenient way to run the web-platform-tests in-browser. It will run
testharness.js tests automatically but requires manual work for
reftests and manual tests.

The runner can be found at `/tools/runner/index.html` on the local
server i.e.

```
http://web-platform.test:8000/tools/runner/index.html
```

in the default configuration. The first time you use this it has to
generate a manifest of all tests. This may take some time, so please
be patient.

Publication
===========

The master branch is automatically synced to http://w3c-test.org/.

Pull requests are automatically mirrored to
http://w3c-test.org/submissions/ a few minutes after someone with merge
access has added a comment with "LGTM" (or "w3c-test:mirror") to indicate
the PR has been checked.

Finding Things
==============

Each top-level directory represents a W3C specification: the name
matches the shortname used after the canonical address of the said
specification under http://www.w3.org/TR/ .

For some of the specifications, the tree under the top-level directory
represents the sections of the respective documents, using the section
IDs for directory names, with a maximum of three levels deep.

So if you're looking for tests in HTML for "The History interface",
they will be under `html/browsers/history/the-history-interface/`.

Various resources that tests depend on are in `common`, `images`, and
`fonts`.

Branches
========

In the vast majority of cases the **only** upstream branch that you
should need to care about is `master`. If you see other branches in
the repository, you can generally safely ignore them.

Contributing
============

Save the Web, Write Some Tests!

Absolutely everyone is welcome (and even encouraged) to contribute to
test development, so long as you fulfill the contribution requirements
detailed in the [Contributing Guidelines][contributing]. No test is
too small or too simple, especially if it corresponds to something for
which you've noted an interoperability bug in a browser.

The way to contribute is just as usual:

* Fork this repository (and make sure you're still relatively in sync
  with it if you forked a while ago).
* Create a branch for your changes:
  `git checkout -b topic`.
* Make your changes.
* Run the lint script described below.
* Commit locally and push that to your repo.
* Send in a pull request based on the above.

Issues with web-platform-tests
------------------------------

If you spot an issue with a test and are not comfortable providing a
pull request per above to fix it, please
[file a new issue](https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/issues/new).
Thank you!

Lint tool
---------

We have a lint tool for catching common mistakes in test files. You
can run it manually by starting the `lint` executable from the root of
your local web-platform-tests working directory like this:

```
./lint
```

The lint tool is also run automatically for every submitted pull
request, and reviewers will not merge branches with tests that have
lint errors, so you must fix any errors the lint tool reports. For
details on doing that, see the [lint-tool documentation][lint-tool].

But in the unusual case of error reports for things essential to a
certain test or that for other exceptional reasons shouldn't prevent
a merge of a test, update and commit the `lint.whitelist` file in the
web-platform-tests root directory to suppress the error reports. For
details on doing that, see the [lint-tool documentation][lint-tool].

[lint-tool]: https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/blob/master/docs/lint-tool.md

Adding command-line scripts ("tools" subdirs)
---------------------------------------------

Sometimes you may want to add a script to the repository that's meant
to be used from the command line, not from a browser (e.g., a script
for generating test files). If you want to ensure (e.g., for security
reasons) that such scripts won't be handled by the HTTP server, but
will instead only be usable from the command line, then place them in
either:

* the `tools` subdir at the root of the repository, or

* the `tools` subdir at the root of any top-level directory in the
  repository which contains the tests the script is meant to be used
  with

Any files in those `tools` directories won't be handled by the HTTP
server; instead the server will return a 404 if a user navigates to
the URL for a file within them.

If you want to add a script for use with a particular set of tests but
there isn't yet any `tools` subdir at the root of a top-level
directory in the repository containing those tests, you can create a
`tools` subdir at the root of that top-level directory and place your
scripts there.

For example, if you wanted to add a script for use with tests in the
`notifications` directory, create the `notifications/tools` subdir and
put your script there.

Test Review
===========

We can sometimes take a little while to go through pull requests
because we have to go through all the tests and ensure that they match
the specification correctly. But we look at all of them, and take
everything that we can.

OWNERS files are used only to indicate who should be notified of pull
requests.  If you are interested in receiving notifications of proposed
changes to tests in a given directory, feel free to add yourself to the
OWNERS file. Anyone with expertise in the specification under test can
approve a pull request.  In particular, if a test change has already
been adequately reviewed "upstream" in another repository, it can be
pushed here without any further review by supplying a link to the
upstream review.

Getting Involved
================

If you wish to contribute actively, you're very welcome to join the
public-test-infra@w3.org mailing list (low traffic) by
[signing up to our mailing list](mailto:public-test-infra-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe).
The mailing list is [archived][mailarchive].

Join us on irc #testing ([irc.w3.org][ircw3org], port 6665). The channel
is [archived][ircarchive].

[contributing]: https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[ircw3org]: https://www.w3.org/wiki/IRC
[ircarchive]: http://krijnhoetmer.nl/irc-logs/testing/
[mailarchive]: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-test-infra/

Documentation
=============

* [How to write and review tests](http://testthewebforward.org/docs/)
* [Documentation for the wptserve server](http://wptserve.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

Commit message:

Import wpt@e7fd02883681e03901a5021ac06c43a6c1c92fce
Using wpt-import in Chromium 73b7f2fce6f5ef21212bb6482fd5cfa7ec9344f6.

Build: https://build.chromium.org/p/chromium.infra.cron/builders/w3c-test-autoroller/builds/8037

Directory owners for changes in this CL:
jsbell@chromium.org:
  external/wpt/IndexedDB

TBR=qyearsley@chromium.org
NOEXPORT=true

Change-Id: Iedf49e2a8cd1ca694bcc85b92b568ad5eb94b632

third_party/WebKit/LayoutTests/external/wpt/README.md, after:

The web-platform-tests Project [![IRC chat](https://goo.gl/6nCIks)](http://irc.w3.org/?channels=testing)
==============================

The web-platform-tests Project is a W3C-coordinated attempt to build a
cross-browser testsuite for the Web-platform stack.  However, for mainly
historic reasons, the CSS WG testsuite is in a separate repository,
[csswg-test](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-test). Writing tests in a way
that allows them to be run in all browsers gives browser projects
confidence that they are shipping software that is compatible with other
implementations, and that later implementations will be compatible with
their implementations. This in turn gives Web authors/developers
confidence that they can actually rely on the Web platform to deliver on
the promise of working across browsers and devices without needing extra
layers of abstraction to paper over the gaps left by specification
editors and implementors.

Running the Tests
=================

The tests are designed to be run from your local computer. The test
environment requires [Python 2.7+](http://www.python.org/downloads) (but not Python 3.x).
You will also need a copy of OpenSSL.

On Windows, be sure to add the Python directory (`c:\python2x`, by default) to
your `%Path%` [Environment Variable](http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm),
and read the [Windows Notes](#windows-notes) section below.

To get the tests running, you need to set up the test domains in your
[`hosts` file](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hosts_%28file%29%23Location_in_the_file_system). The
following entries are required:

```
127.0.0.1   web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   www.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   www1.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   www2.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   xn--n8j6ds53lwwkrqhv28a.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1   xn--lve-6lad.web-platform.test
0.0.0.0     nonexistent-origin.web-platform.test
```

If you are behind a proxy, you also need to make sure the domains above are
excluded from your proxy lookups.

Because web-platform-tests uses git submodules, you must ensure that
these are up to date. In the root of your checkout, run:

```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

The test environment can then be started using

    ./serve

This will start HTTP servers on two ports and a websockets server on
one port. By default one web server starts on port 8000 and the other
ports are randomly-chosen free ports. Tests must be loaded from the
*first* HTTP server in the output. To change the ports, copy the
`config.default.json` file to `config.json` and edit the new file,
replacing the part that reads:

```
"http": [8000, "auto"]
```

to some port of your choice e.g.

```
"http": [1234, "auto"]
```

If you installed OpenSSL in such a way that running `openssl` at a
command line doesn't work, you also need to adjust the path to the
OpenSSL binary. This can be done by adding a section to `config.json`
like:

```
"ssl": {"openssl": {"binary": "/path/to/openssl"}}
```

<span id="windows-notes">Windows Notes</span>
=============================================

Running wptserve with SSL enabled on Windows typically requires
installing an OpenSSL distribution.
[Shining Light](https://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html)
provide a convenient installer that is known to work, but requires a
little extra setup, i.e.:

Run the installer for Win32_OpenSSL_v1.1.0b (30MB). During installation,
change the default location for where to Copy OpenSSL Dlls from the
System directory to the /bin directory.

After installation, ensure that the path to OpenSSL (typically,
this will be `C:\OpenSSL-Win32\bin`) is in your `%Path%`
[Environment Variable](http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm).
If you forget to do this part, you will most likely see a 'File Not Found'
error when you start wptserve.

Finally, set the path value in the server configuration file to the
default OpenSSL configuration file location. To do this,
copy `config.default.json` in the web-platform-tests root to `config.json`.
Then edit the JSON so that the key `ssl/openssl/base_conf_path` has a
value that is the path to the OpenSSL config file (typically this
will be `C:\\OpenSSL-Win32\\bin\\openssl.cfg`).

Alternatively, you may also use
[Bash on Ubuntu on Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/commandline/wsl/about)
in the Windows 10 Anniversary Update build, then access your windows
partition from there to launch wptserve.

Publication
===========

The master branch is automatically synced to http://w3c-test.org/.

Pull requests are
[automatically mirrored](http://w3c-test.org/submissions/) except those
that modify sensitive resources (such as `.py`). The latter require
someone with merge access to comment with "LGTM" or "w3c-test:mirror" to
indicate the pull request has been checked.

Finding Things
==============

Each top-level directory matches the shortname used by a standard, with
some exceptions. (Typically the shortname is from the standard's
corresponding GitHub repository.)

For some of the specifications, the tree under the top-level directory
represents the sections of the respective documents, using the section
IDs for directory names, with a maximum of three levels deep.

So if you're looking for tests in HTML for "The History interface",
they will be under `html/browsers/history/the-history-interface/`.

Various resources that tests depend on are in `common`, `images`, and
`fonts`.

Branches
========

In the vast majority of cases the **only** upstream branch that you
should need to care about is `master`. If you see other branches in
the repository, you can generally safely ignore them.

Contributing
============

Save the Web, Write Some Tests!

Absolutely everyone is welcome (and even encouraged) to contribute to
test development, so long as you fulfill the contribution requirements
detailed in the [Contributing Guidelines][contributing]. No test is
too small or too simple, especially if it corresponds to something for
which you've noted an interoperability bug in a browser.

The way to contribute is just as usual:

* Fork this repository (and make sure you're still relatively in sync
  with it if you forked a while ago).
* Create a branch for your changes:
  `git checkout -b topic`.
* Make your changes.
* Run the lint script described below.
* Commit locally and push that to your repo.
* Send in a pull request based on the above.

Issues with web-platform-tests
------------------------------

If you spot an issue with a test and are not comfortable providing a
pull request per above to fix it, please
[file a new issue](https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/issues/new).
Thank you!

Lint tool
---------

We have a lint tool for catching common mistakes in test files. You
can run it manually by starting the `lint` executable from the root of
your local web-platform-tests working directory like this:

```
./lint
```

The lint tool is also run automatically for every submitted pull
request, and reviewers will not merge branches with tests that have
lint errors, so you must fix any errors the lint tool reports. For
details on doing that, see the [lint-tool documentation][lint-tool].

But in the unusual case of error reports for things essential to a
certain test or that for other exceptional reasons shouldn't prevent
a merge of a test, update and commit the `lint.whitelist` file in the
web-platform-tests root directory to suppress the error reports. For
details on doing that, see the [lint-tool documentation][lint-tool].

[lint-tool]: https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/blob/master/docs/lint-tool.md

Adding command-line scripts ("tools" subdirs)
---------------------------------------------

Sometimes you may want to add a script to the repository that's meant
to be used from the command line, not from a browser (e.g., a script
for generating test files). If you want to ensure (e.g., for security
reasons) that such scripts won't be handled by the HTTP server, but
will instead only be usable from the command line, then place them in
either:

* the `tools` subdir at the root of the repository, or

* the `tools` subdir at the root of any top-level directory in the
  repository which contains the tests the script is meant to be used
  with

Any files in those `tools` directories won't be handled by the HTTP
server; instead the server will return a 404 if a user navigates to
the URL for a file within them.

If you want to add a script for use with a particular set of tests but
there isn't yet any `tools` subdir at the root of a top-level
directory in the repository containing those tests, you can create a
`tools` subdir at the root of that top-level directory and place your
scripts there.

For example, if you wanted to add a script for use with tests in the
`notifications` directory, create the `notifications/tools` subdir and
put your script there.

Test Review
===========

We can sometimes take a little while to go through pull requests
because we have to go through all the tests and ensure that they match
the specification correctly. But we look at all of them, and take
everything that we can.

OWNERS files are used only to indicate who should be notified of pull
requests.  If you are interested in receiving notifications of proposed
changes to tests in a given directory, feel free to add yourself to the
OWNERS file. Anyone with expertise in the specification under test can
approve a pull request.  In particular, if a test change has already
been adequately reviewed "upstream" in another repository, it can be
pushed here without any further review by supplying a link to the
upstream review.

Getting Involved
================

If you wish to contribute actively, you're very welcome to join the
public-test-infra@w3.org mailing list (low traffic) by
[signing up to our mailing list](mailto:public-test-infra-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe).
The mailing list is [archived][mailarchive].

Join us on irc #testing ([irc.w3.org][ircw3org], port 6665). The channel
is [archived][ircarchive].

[contributing]: https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[ircw3org]: https://www.w3.org/wiki/IRC
[ircarchive]: http://krijnhoetmer.nl/irc-logs/testing/
[mailarchive]: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-test-infra/

Documentation
=============

* [How to write and review tests](http://testthewebforward.org/docs/)
* [Documentation for the wptserve server](http://wptserve.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)
